Alerts in correlations feature documentation (#7410)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _security-analytics/usage/alerts.md

# Working with alerts

> The **Alerts** window provides features to view and manage alerts. It consists of:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Alerts** window provides features for viewing and managing alerts. It consists of:
```

- A bar graph displaying alert counts, dates, and statuses or severities.
- Two tabs:

>   - **Findings**: Lists detector-generated alerts, showing details such as alert time, trigger name, and detector that triggered the alert.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - **Findings**: Lists detector-generated alerts, showing details such as alert time, trigger name, and the detector that triggered the alert.
```

>   - **Correlations**: Lists correlation rule-generated alerts, showing details such as alert time, trigger name, and correlation rule that triggered the alert.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - **Correlations**: Lists correlation-rule-generated alerts, showing details such as alert time, trigger name, and the correlation rule that triggered the alert.
```

You can select the **Refresh** button to refresh information on the **Alerts** page.

---

## Alerts graph

> The **Alerts** graph displays alerts by their status or severity. Use the **Group by** dropdown list to specify either **Alert status** or **Alert severity**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Alerts** graph displays alerts by their status or severity. Use the **Group by** dropdown menu to specify either **Alert status** or **Alert severity**.
```

> To specify a date range, select the calendar icon to activate the dropdown menu. The date selector window then opens. An example window is shown in the following image

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To specify a date range, select the calendar icon to activate the dropdown menu. The date selector window opens. An example window is shown in the following image.
```

<br><img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/Security/find-date-pick.png" alt="Date selector for findings graph" width="55%">

> You can use the **Quick select** settings to specify a date range.

Reviewer: Should this end in a colon rather than a period?

> You can use the **Quick select** settings to specify a date range.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use the **Quick select** settings to specify a date range:
```

> * Select either **Last** or **Next** from the first dropdown list to set the date range behind the current setting or ahead of the current setting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Select either **Last** or **Next** from the first dropdown menu to set the date range to either behind the current setting or ahead of the current setting.
```

> * Select a number from the second dropdown list to define a value for the range.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Select a number from the second dropdown menu to define a value for the range.
```

> * Select a unit of time from the third dropdown list. Available options are seconds, minutes, hours, days, weeks, months, and years.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Select a unit of time from the third dropdown menu. Available options are seconds, minutes, hours, days, weeks, months, and years.
```

> * Select the **Apply** button to apply the time range to the graph. Information on the graph updates immediately

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Select the **Apply** button to apply the time range to the graph. The graph is immediately updated.
```

An example window is shown in the following image.

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/Security/quickset.png" alt="Quick select settings example" width="40%">

You can use the left and right arrows in the upper-left corner to shift the time range backward or forward, respectively. When you use these arrows, the start date and end date appear in the date range field. You can then select each one to set an absolute, relative, or current date and time. For absolute and relative changes, select the **Update** button to apply the changes. 

An example window is shown in the following image.

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/Security/date-pick.png" alt="Altering date range" width="55%">

> As an alternative, you can select an option in the **Commonly used** section (see the preceding image of the calendar dropdown list) to conveniently set a date range. Options include **Today**, **Yesterday**, **this week**, and **week to date**. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As an alternative, you can select an option in the **Commonly used** section (see the preceding image of the calendar dropdown menu) to conveniently set a date range. Options include **Today**, **Yesterday**, **this week**, and **week to date**. 
```

> When a commonly used date range is selected, you can select the **Show dates** label in the date range field to populate the ranges. You can then select either the start date or end date to specify by an absolute, relative, or current date and time setting. For absolute and relative changes, select the **Update** button to apply the changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a commonly used date range is selected, you can select the **Show dates** label in the date range field to populate the ranges. You can then select either the start date or end date to specify an absolute, relative, or current date and time setting. For absolute and relative changes, select the **Update** button to apply the changes.
```

> You can also select an option from the **Recently used date ranges** section to go back to a previous setting.

Reviewer: "go back to" => "revert to"?

> You can also select an option from the **Recently used date ranges** section to go back to a previous setting.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also select an option from the **Recently used date ranges** section to revert to a previous setting.
```

---

## Alerts list

The **Alerts list** displays all alerts, with two tabs for different types of alerts:

> - **Findings**: The **Alerts list** displays all findings according to the time when the alert was triggered, the alert's trigger name, the detector that triggered the alert, the alert status, and alert severity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Findings**: The **Alerts list** displays all findings according to the time when the alert was triggered, the alert's trigger name, the detector that triggered the alert, the alert status, and the alert severity.
```

> - **Correlations**:  The **Alerts list** displays all correlations according to the rule and rule time window when the alert was triggered, the alert's trigger name, the correlation rule name that triggered the alert, the alert status, and the alert severity.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Correlations**:  The **Alerts list** displays all correlations, including the correlation rule and time window, the alert's trigger name, the correlation rule name that triggered the alert, the alert status, and the alert severity.
```
